So we left off with creating our
API handlers for authentication.
We have our all form that we already
completed, we put the offer on the pages.
We have our utility
functions that we made.
The last thing we need is that mechanism
that checks the JSON Web Token and
enforces it across any protected
resources that we want.
So let's figure out what
resources we wanna protect.
So as of right now,
there's really only two types of
resources that we wanna protect.
That's gonna be access to a certain page,
and then obviously access to certain data.
So a page, is a route, so
basically we wanna block routes off based
off what JSON Web Token you have or
not and then for data that's either gonna
be blocking access to an API route.
And we'll make some of those today or
it's also gonna be blocking access to,
like a database query inside
of a server component.
Since you don't need an API route for
server components,
you can just go straight to the database.
So those are three different places
in which we want to block access to.
So for the pages, we're gonna
use something called middleware,
that's probably the best approach
in NextJS to block access to pages.
For blocking access to an API handler
you can also use middleware for
that that works too, if you want
something a little more granular,
you can just block the access yourself
inside the API handler function.
But then blocking access to like
a database query inside of a server
component, you would not
use middleware for that and
you have to do that on the code level,
which we will also do today.
But let's do middleware.
So next section here, what is middleware?
Middleware is just like a common term
that's used in programming it means,
it's like the word API, it means
everything and nothing at the same time.
But really, middleware is just something
that kind of just, you could think of as
like an interceptor or something that sits
in the middle of your final destination
when you're trying to make a request
when you're trying to go somewhere.
It's usually used in the terms of making
requests, you're trying to make a request
somewhere, whether that's a front-end
router or a back-end router, and
there's something in the middle in between
where you're making the request to and
where you started, that's middleware.
And express middleware would be like
exactly what it sounds like you would
use middleware for like parsing the JSON
and the body for adding logs and
checking JSON Web Tokens and
things like that.
NextJS has built in use cases for
middleware,
but it's not the same as like Express
that's because NextJS actually
allows you to have two different
run times when it comes to node.
You have the edge run time, which is,
it's almost like a service function,
but a service function it can
actually compute things and
it runs and
it has full environment of node.
It's not as restricted
as a edge run time and
edge run time is basically,
imagine a network of CDN.
So you have a CDN and
all the nodes on the CDN, a while ago,
you can only put read only assets on that
CDN we're talking like files images.
If you've ever got an image off
the internet, it was probably on a CDN and
that's how it got there so fast.
But for the longest you can only
put read only things on that CDN.
Well, up until the last five years,
we can now actually compute on the edge.
So it's not only read only things,
we can actually run code on that edge,
on that node, and
that's what the edge run time is.
It allows us to run JavaScript on
the CDN node closest to where you made
the request.
So that means whatever code you put up
on the edge run time is going to be
duplicated across the entire CDN
in which you are deploying to, and
the user that makes the request is going
to have that code to get executed from
the node closest to them.
So it's just a really great way to,
I mean, there's so many use cases for
edge run times it's kind of ridiculous.
I've seen people do AB testing,
I've seen people do personalized dynamic
websites It's for people based off the IP
address, like, go to the edge function,
take this IP address, do a lookup to see
what companies this IP address belongs
to change the header on the website to
specifically call that company out.
And it's still SEO friendly, right?
So like you can do things like that on the
edge without ever touching your origin.
So it's just instant.
So it's a lot of crazy stuff you can do.
What we're gonna do,
is prevent people from accessing different
pages that's what we're gonna do.
So let's do that.
In order to make a middleware,
it's actually quite simple,
we just go to the root of our project and
make a new file, we say middleware.cs.
So middleware is kind of like a handler,
it's just a function that runs.
And then we can proceed and
say, hey, cool, go next or
we can stop it and redirect,
we can throw errors.
But basically you can think of as like
the bodyguard for our pages in this case.
Or in the case of NextJS, any route ever,
middleware can sit in front of any route,
even if it's a route to a public image,
even if it's a route to the favicon,
like it can sit in front of any route.
And you'll see, we'll actually have to
tell it not to do that because by default,
it does sit in front of every route and
we don't want our middleware function
running every time someone requests
an image, that's kind of redundant.
So we have to be very explicit about that
and there's many ways you can do it.
But basically the strategy for
this middleware is to one,
determine if the requests coming in is to
a resource on which we want to protect.
If it is what we wanna do is check to see
if there's a JSON Web Token in the cookie
header our specific token,
if it is we want to verify that token and
if you are verified then we'll let you
proceed to whatever you are gonna do
we'll let you in the gate to whatever
resource you're trying to access.
If any one of those things fail,
we will redirect you back to sign in,
that's what the middleware is gonna do,
right?
But there's a lot of stuff we have to do
in between to make sure that happens, so
let's get started.
The first thing is,
as I import some of these things, and
this is gonna seem kind of redundant.
We're gonna have to make the same
function that we already made in the auth
file called, I think we even call it
the same verified JSON Web Token.
So I'm just gonna paste it in, I'm gonna
talk about why we have to make this again.
In that API file and I did this
intentionally we could fix this another
way, but I want it to run into this
I can have it as a talking point.
I'm sorry, but in that auth file,
there is a package up here called bcrypt.
Okay bcrypt runs on node, it's totally
fine, it works in node even runs in our
server components cuz we tell it next day,
yes about it in the next config.
Down here somewhere, there we go right but
it will not run in the edge environment.
And edge environment,
although it's JavaScript,
it is not the same JavaScript as node
it is not fully fleshed out that way.
It uses something very similar to
like a web worker's environment,
it's very limited in how it operates
because it's not a full environment you
have these restrictions where you can't
use code that's like doing dynamic things.
Most of the code has to be static
bcript does a lot of dynamic things, so
not all MPM packages will
run in an edge run time.
So inside this middle word file,
you probably won't be able to run every
single MPM package that you can find and
put it in here that typically works on
node because that code was written
dynamically, not statically.
And this is actually why I had to find
another package for JSON Web Tokens,
this new one called jose.
I actually never used this one
before until this course because
the one that I actually use doesn't work
in edge runtimes because of the way that
it was written whereas this one does.
So remember that you can't use
every package in here and so
to avoid it obviously we would
have just took the verify part or
this whole JSON Web Token part and
put in its own file like JWT.ts and
then we could import it in both places and
I won't have to write it twice but
I wanted to talk about that.
I want to show you why that is.
So we're just going to write it again.
Okay, cool so we have that now
let's make our middleware function.
All you have to do for the middleware
function here is just export a function
that has a request in response very
similar to a handler that's really it.
So let's do that.
There we go, so
we have a request and response and
if you want to type this I believe
there's a Next, let me see.
It might just be the request one.
It might be I thought it
was slightly different.
You could probably use that one but
I think it is slightly different,
I'm not gonna use it, I don't trust it.
So what we have to do is be very like I
said before, very explicit about when
we want this middleware to run and
there's, so many ways we can do that.
The way that I'm going to do it is in
the middleware function itself with my own
conditional so
I'm just going to check to see if
the path name that's being requested.
Look at req.nextUrl,
if that starts with any one of these,
you're free to go,
this is all public resources you can go.
And so this includes like the API folder
because I'm probably gonna do checking
in the API handlers themselves,
if you are signed in or not.
So I don't want to do that
here on the middleware layer.
So Imma let you go if you want to talk to
API, static files, signin and register,
I don't want to block you from accessing
the sign in or register page if you aren't
signed in, then you wouldn't ever
be able to sign in or register and
it'll just be it will just infinitely
redirect until it crashed.
So we want to do that too.
And then this next one is just
like this is like mostly for
development next builds to this folder.
So this is just saying, like, yeah,
you can go here if you want to go to those
resources, we're not gonna block you this
last one here is just the public it's just
the regist I made for, like, public files.
They typically have like,
that slash in front of them.
So, yeah, this is like any public file,
like an image or
something you all get the green card,
you get to go, right?
So that's what we wanna do,
so let's do that
we're gonna say const
pathname= req.nextUrl.
And then from there, cognitive statements
are lots of writes, like that.
You can also do this outside
of the middleware function.
You can export, forgot the exact syntax,
so let's go look at it,
you can export a configuration object
called a matcher here like this and
you can tell NextJS which
routes you want to match on.
So any of these will
trigger the middleware, but
you can also do like regex's as well,
which have like negative look ahead.
So you can say anything that's not this so
there's many ways to do it.
I chose to do it in a code because I
didn't want to write a lot of regex's.
So and I also had problems with this
syntax because it's like regex to
paths syntax I'm not familiar with it so
I had a lot of problems actually trying
to figure out the paths that I want.
It was triggering when I didn't want
it to trigger and vice versa so
I decided to just do it this way which is
they also recommend this way as well just
know that if you did the matcher way where
you export a config with a matcher this
function won't even run
if it doesn't match.
Whereas in our case, the function will
run every single time it just won't get
past this line if it falls here,
so, but it's basically free,
it's a function running on a CDN.
So you're not and it's usually so
inexpensive that it's not like you're
losing money, I mean these things are
fractions of a fraction of a penny to run
so Cool, okay.
Now we want to do is we want to
get the cookies from req.cookies.
So we can say JWT, or get a JWT
from cookies, req.cookies.get and
we can access the environment
variables here like that.
Grab our cookie and
then if you don't have a JSON Web Token,
then what we want to do is
we want to set the pathname.
The pathname is where you were trying to
go before this middleware stopped you.
So we wanna change that, we don't
care what it was, it's sign in now,
that's the path name, and
then we wanna redirect you to it, right?
So that's what we're gonna do, so
we're gonna say, if you don't have a JSON
web token, okay, then req.nextUrl.pathname
whatever it was before,
it doesn't matter because it's signed
in now that's where you're going.
And then we just want to return
this NextResponse.redirect so
we'll say return NextResponse.redirect and
you have to give it a req.nextUrl.
And next response comes from next
server mine is auto imported.
Okay and then from there we'll
just do a try catch just to try to
verify this thing we don't
need to get the user here.
In fact, we wouldn't do anything with it
because we can't pull in Prisma, we can't
run Prisma here on the middleware that's
the next evolution of edge runtimes.
It's like how do we store data and
things like that, and
there are some solutions out there, but
it's not a Postgres database using
Prisma that's not gonna work here.
So there's no need to get
the results of this token and
look it up like we did inside of our sign
in where we got the token, we checked
the ID to see if your real, like, we don't
need to do that, because we can't do it.
And that's not the purpose of this
middleware, this middleware was just
making sure that there is a JSON Web Token
that was created by us and that's it.
The identifying of that is, wherever
you're going next, and not the job
of this middleware, at least in this case,
given our resources, so let's do that.
And make sure we use
the one that we created and
not the one that is in the other file so
we'll do that.
And then from there, you just called next,
just like most middleware, there's
usually a next function that you call
because there's like multiple middleware.
So it's like, just go to the next function
that you're trying to run and we have
catch, we have an error, trying to verify
you can't go wherever you're trying to go.
So what we're gonna do is we're gonna
do the same thing we did above,
we're gonna redirect you to sign in.
We're gonna change the path name to sign
in, and we're gonna redirect you there.